Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be replacing at code to get start with code that does a dictionary look
up instead.
And we're going to build that dictionary look up and then use it and get standards why it's hidden from
you because that's gonna be your challenge solutions.
I don't want to spoil things.
Let's dive in and see how this works.
So if you're like me you might be getting a little bit concerned about the performance of this gets
that function.
Now usually I don't talk about optimizing things too early but here I'm really seeing a problem might
arise in the future not in my project but in your projects.
Reason being we have got two for each loops and they are each just expensively going over everything
in the character classes and the stats.
So if you have a really long progression with lots of character classes and under each character class
you've got a myriad of stats then this whole operation could take you quite a long time.
So that's not ideal.
That's not what we want and it wouldn't be a problem if we were doing it once or twice in the game.
But the problem is in health display we're actually getting percentage and get percentage calls get
stats.
So that's happening every single update and expensive operation every update that's a no no.
So we want to have a look at how we could optimize this and the key to this is going to be to use a
dictionary as a look up table.
Now what do I mean by lookup table.
I mean that we basically want to say here's my character class then here's my stat and here's my level
please return me an integer.
So it's a multi-level look up but it's still a look up we're trying to look up by these values.
So unfortunately we can't use dictionary is in building ask critical objects.
It's just not a serialized ball type by Unity's standard a serialization.
So we have to build our dictionary after the fact.
And what's that dictionary going to look like.
Well let's just have a look at what we're looking up by shall we.
So first of all we are looking up by the character class.
That's the whole purpose of this first for each loop is that we're looking for this progression class
that has a particular character class.
So we know that in our dictionary the first key is going to be the character class.
Then what we can do is we can nest another dictionary inside it to do a secondary look up and what's
the key if that one's going to be well what's the next thing that we're looking up by.
We're looking up by the progression stat note by the stat itself.
So the static num is the next thing in the dictionary.
And then what are we looking up by we're looking.
By this integer but we don't need to use a dictionary to look up by integer.
It's perfectly performance to look up in an array by integer so we can just have a float array in here
to look up by then that can be exactly the float array that we've got already.
So that is the type we are going to go for.
Now you say it's not particularly happy with it at the moment because what we've got to do is do a using
System dot collections dot generic.
So that's going to allow us to use the dictionary class and then I might just need to have one more
Chevron there and then a variable names so I'm gonna be calling this the look up table like so and it's
going to start off as being No.
But we do want to build.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna comment about the current code that we've got for doing our look
up.
So instead of doing that we're gonna do something else and that's gonna be the subject of your challenge
in a second but it's gonna create a method called Build look up and this build look up method is if
we go ahead and generate the method for build look up it's gonna be a void method.
And at the beginning we're just basically gonna say if we already have a look up table.
So if it is not no then we can return basically because we want to build the look up only if it hasn't
been built before.
So this is what's going to give us the savings because obviously if every time we it gets that we are
building the look up it won't be any more performance.
But if every time we are getting start we only build the look up the first time then that is going to
be helpful.
So how are we going to build the look up.
Well if you're feeling confident and you think you can build the look up and do the get stat implementation
for the lookup table then by all means be my guest and go ahead otherwise follow along with the how
I'm going to build the look up and that should give you some clues for how we're going to replace get
stat OK so the core of our lookup table the core of the operation is going to be that we have to go
through all of the character classes in our list putting the key into here and then creating a new dictionary
to go into here.
So that's what I'm gonna do first of all is the for each loop and that for each loop is going to go
over what is it gonna go over the progression cache plans that I'm just gonna copy that for loop that
we've got up here.
Because it's exactly the same one.
And now there's two things we want to have.
We've got the key already.
That's basically going to be the progression class dots whatever it is.
But we also want to be building a dictionary in here.
So let's have a look at what that dictionary is.
That's this one here.
This type.
So we want a dictionary of this type to go inside our dictionary.
So let's create the outside dictionary too because we want to create our lookup tables.
We've already said that is null because we haven't returned.
So the look up table is going to be equal to a dictionary of this type.
So I need to do new dictionary of this type and then empty just like that.
So that's a new empty dictionary.
And then what we're going to wanted to do inside this for each loop is something in the following base
we won't do a look up table and then the key as we know is going to be the progression class Dot's character
class and that's going to be equal to what.
Well it's gonna be equal to a stat look up table like so.
And what's the type of the stat lookup table Well it's just this dictionary inside the dictionary.
So we'll put that out that type out in a front.
We can do a new dictionary of this type and I can just use in this case because they're such long variables
the such long types the dictionary types.
I'm just using a var up in front.
So we'll ask stat lookup table and that's basically what we're going to set our look up equal to.
But don't forget we need to actually populate that stat look up table as well.
So we're going to do that between setting here and actually creating it and how we're going to do that
well again.
Same process here.
We're going to do a for each loop and by the way if at any point you think you can handle the rest of
this build look up do pause the video and have a go.
What we're gonna do is a for each loop over this progression where instead of progression carriage counts
we're gonna go over the stats instead.
So again we've got a for each loop just like this one up here.
So I'm going to copy that that's what we're going over these stats inside a particular progression class
we're currently in and we want to be building up assets that look up table very much in the same way
so what's gonna go in the stat lookup table we know that the key needs to be a stats a particular stat
so we look at this progression stat and say OK tell me what your stat is and that's gonna be the key
to our lookup table and then what's the value going to be.
Well it's just going to be this float array of levels.
So it's going to be the progression stat dot levels like so and that pretty much works it out.
So at the end of this we've got a look up table that has been built from scratch.
We have gone over each character class that we've got and added in a stat lookup table the stat lookup
table is in turn built by going over all the stats we've got within the progression class and using
the key.
The progression stack as the key and the levels is then the variable that we want to create so here
is your change for the lecture to complete get stat.
You're going to use the look up dictionary obviously in order to do it and you're basically going to
need very little code.
Hopefully if he can do it right.
And don't worry about any missing key errors at this point.
Just do the simplest approach possible using that look up dictionary pause video and have a go.
Okay.
Welcome back.
So hopefully from the structure of our dictionary it should be fairly easy to use.
In fact all we need to do is in a single line.
We can use our lookup table to say Okay first of all we want to look up by the character class.
Secondly we want to look up by the start.
And thirdly we want to look up by the level.
It's really that simple.
That should be enough.
If I had the right spelling a start with lowercase you can see the type is correct and that should be
enough.
But remember that we had already got this set up where we were doing a check of the level length and
I was fine if you didn't do this in the challenge.
But what I want to do is just make sure that's included as well.
So what I'm going to do is take out here the floats array that is going to be the levels and so we're
going to stop one step short here.
We're just going to do the character class then the start have a levels come out of here and then I
want to do is just check.
So we're going gonna have an if the progression start whereas it progression stat note levels levels
dot length and then what we saying that if it's less than level then we should continue.
So that's the wrong case and so we're going to say if it's less than level what are we going to do we're
going to do a return.
And in this case we were just returning zero so I'm gonna do the same thing.
Basically we're returning zero because we would default through until we reached zero here.
So we'll just return zero base level DOT length less than level means that we don't have a level for
this we retain zero and otherwise we're going to just look out for that level's level like so and return
that instead.
Now I can delete this commented out code because it's now redundant.
Actually that reads much nicer.
This gets that is much more easy and the build look up yet it's a bit more complicated but we know what
it's doing now because we've actually built it.
Let's go over into the editor and just check that this is actually working as we intend actually go
ahead and play and if we're getting 100 percent for our health then we should be doing all right.
It's using get start to do that.
Now you can see there is some out of bounds errors here and the reason for that you must been screaming
at screens.
Well I didn't copy across is that we need to level minus one in here.
Otherwise this logic kind of falls short.
So let's try it again.
Recycle the game and play again.
And sure enough 100 percent now but no errors can go on beat this guy and it's all work in the same
as check my experience reward comes through.
Yes everything is working but hopefully this time it is now working more performance because we're using
a dictionary that we only build once next lecture we will be doing a levelling up.
See you that.